Ord
	Books

	Sections
		Health Reform Principles
			Relate to temperance reform
		Treatments


	The place of this in the gospel work

In Time of Persecution 
As religious aggression subverts the liberties of our nation, those who would stand for freedom of conscience will be placed in unfavorable positions. For their own sake, they should, while they have the opportunity, become intelligent in regard to disease, its causes, prevention, and cure. All those who do this will find a field of labor anywhere. There will be suffering ones, plenty of them, who will need help, not only among those of our own faith, but largely among those who know not the truth. The shortness of time demands an energy that has not been aroused among those who claim to believe the present truth.--Counsels on Health, p. 506.  {CME 11.4} 


-------Unsorted
The five elimination Organs: Skin, liver, lungs, kidneys, *** bile (is this an organ)?

The eight doctors will help us to know what we need to correct when we get sick?

-------------
Diabetes
	Causes of Death. Where does diabetes rank?

	Sources:
		Textbook of Natural Medicine. pg 1320
		Textbook of Natural Medicine. pg 1320
		Encyclopedia of Foods. pg 57

Diabetes Mellitus
	Why mellitus? 


Diabetes type 2 — A form of diabetes mellitus that usually occurs in adults. The pancreas produces insulin, but the muscle cells are resistant to the effects of the insulin. This was formerly called maturity (or adult) onset diabetes.


Symptoms develop gradually and, at first, are hard to identify.


Diabetes Mellitus
A disorder of metabolism (the way the body uses digested food for growth and energy)
The
origin of the name “diabetes mellitus” is Greek, referring to
sweetness or honey (mellitus) that passes through (diabetes).

Diabetes
is actually not a single condition but a group of diseases
with one thing in common—a problem with insulin.


In
a person with diabetes, the pancreas does not produce
sufficient insulin to meet the body’s needs.  This insufficiency may develop if the pancreas stops producing the
right amount and quality of insulin, if the rest of the body’s
cells do not respond properly to insulin, or a combination
of both.


If there is not enough insulin, excess glucose
builds up in the blood, and the resulting condition is called
hyperglycemia.

Persistent hyperglycemia causes almost all the symptoms
that may alert an individual to the development of diabetes.


These symptoms can include frequent urination, extreme
thirst, blurred vision, fatigue, unexplained weight loss,
recurrent infection, tingling or loss of feeling in the hands
or feet, and hunger.
With diabetes, the excess glucose spills into the urine,
and the urine output increases. Consequently, the person
with diabetes becomes dehydrated and thirsty. Fatigue
results when the supply of glucose to cells is not available,
causing energy levels to decline. To compensate for the
lost fuel, the body burns stored fat, and weight loss and
hunger may occur. Left untreated, persistent hyperglycemia
is also responsible for most of the long-term complications
of diabetes (see Long-Term Complications of Diabetes,
this page).


Diabetes Type 1:
1 in 10 people with diabetes have it
Pancreas produces little or no insulin - to control blood sugar, insulin must be taken
This type of diabetes commonly develops in childhood, but it can occur at any age.
Also insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus or juvenile-onset diabetes
May be caused by an autoimmune disease which destroys  the insulin-producing beta cells in the pancreas


Diabetes Type 2:
Also non-insulin-dependent or adult-onset diabetes
Most persons with type 2 diabetes are overweight or obese

The problem is that the body does
not make enough insulin to meet its needs and the insulin
does not work normally to control glucose levels. This is
termed “insulin resistance” and leads to hyperglycemia

Risk Factors:
	- Overweight (traditional criterion) - impairs insulin action
	- Excess body fat distributed mostly in the abdomen increases the chance for development of type 2 diabetes
	Age
	Race (Type 2 diabetes is more common among Native Americans, Hispanics, African-Americans, and westernized Asians than among people of European ancestry.)
	Heredity
	Lack of physical activity

Long-Term Complications of Diabetes


Lowering Blood glucose:
	For overweight people - lose weight
